Show Reviews 
 Average at best
 Series One
 "I think what it is, you're bad men, but you're our bad men." - Ep. #1.6 - Former Garrison owner Harry to Tommy Shelby
 Peaky Blinders
 And all that hype is over what exactly?
 Superb, but cracks are appearing after five seasons
 Perfect!
 Is there a stronger word for boring?
 Razor sharp
 Self-mythologising in the extreme
 Modern England is being born in Birmingham in the 1920s
 Good Enough
 Stylish gangster drama with realistically captured atmosphere
 Peaky Blinders(2013-)
 A dull, slow story wrapped in many layers of cosplay
 Boardwalk Empire without a soul.....
 Take a Peak
 Watchable But Really Just A Stylised Soap
 This is some damn fine television right here!
 On Peaky Blinders
 The Shelby Family Gang endures through three short seasons
 One of the greatest BBC's shows
 Just Finished Season 4
 One of the better ones!
 By order of the peaky blinders!
Review of Series One:PEAKY BLINDERS has been lauded by many as the BBC's answer to the likes of US-made fare like BOARDWALK EMPIRE; it's a show chronicling life for Birmingham-based gangsters in the 1920s, and with a couple of decent actors in the leads it looks like pretty much a dead-set win. Indeed I've just heard that it's been renewed for a second series, so it must have done something right, but I'm afraid it left me utterly cold.The problem I had with the show is that it just feels so drawn-out, padded and predictable. Whole sub-plots and story lines are dragged out over six episodes when they should have been cleared up in a single episode or two maximum. The likes of GAME OF THRONES have the pacing just right so that the viewer doesn't get bored. Yes, there's merit in slow-burning atmosphere and character-building, but I just didn't like or care about anybody involved; the old Catherine Cookson adaptations of the 1990s did this sort of thing remarkably and PEAKY BLINDERS never comes close.Instead we get one clichéd scene after the next, complete with all the ridiculousness the BBC can throw at you: ultra-slow-motion in the hands of a hack director, and modern-day music to make it seem "cool" but which in reality takes you out of the story every time. Cillian Murphy, an actor I've loved in pretty much everything since RED EYE, is surprisingly dull and one-note; he under-plays everything to the point of monotony, and I found myself hating him for a lot of the running time. Sam Neill is excellent, but he can't account for everything, while Annabelle Wallis is vacant, seeming to think that lurking around with her mouth hanging open constitutes acting when it doesn't.Review of Series Two:The second series of PEAKY BLINDERS is a slight improvement over the first, mainly down to the ramped-up levels of gore and carnage that have clearly been included to appeal to the BOARDWALK EMPIRE and GAME OF THRONES crowd. This series concentrates on the Blinders gang's attempts to expand in the London market, with variable results.The production values are better this time around, and the production has a generally well-made air to it. Unfortunately, there are still hulking problems with it, not least the continued decision to include loud, jarring modern music to accompany the scenes. There are so many shots of characters walking in slow motion with fires or explosions in the background accompanied by this soundtrack that you feel like you're watching a music video at times. It's all very dated and mid-'90s in feel.The main problem with the show, however, is the lack of decent characterisation. The characters are one-note cardboard cut-outs throughout, and to make matters worse, none of them are sympathetic. Murphy just sits behind his desk the whole time, and Tom Hardy's scenery-chewing attempts do little to improve things. Why they brought back two used-up characters (Neill and Wallis) I don't know, because their story arcs are over and both are equally lifeless. A pivotal scene between Neill and McCrory is one of the most excruciating things I've ever sat through. It's the quality of writing that lets PEAKY BLINDERS down, and I just hope they improve on things in the next series; who knows, I might actually start enjoying it then!Review of Series Three:Sadly, series three of PEAKY BLINDERS is a step back to the disjointed nature of series one. It's even more of a case of style and substance here, and I would say that this is the most shallow series yet. For at least half of the running time it feels like one big music video, with the lazy use of loud, modern music to put across a sense of mood when really the scriptwriter should be doing that.The six episodes of this series feel remarkably busy and yet very little actually happens. There are a great deal of new characters in support, including the welcome Paddy Considine as a sinister priest, but none of them actually do very much. Murphy remains a vacuum at the centre of the show, never seeming to develop his character very much beyond the most basic elements. In fact, the only time this picks up is in the very last episode, with intense cutting between three separate story lines adding to the excitement no end. A shame the rest of the series didn't feel like this.
                
            Peaky Blinders had an opening scene with plenty of CGI and a Nick Cave song. It makes its signature move by showing that this is a BBC drama production which will not be all frills and bonnets like a Jane Austen adaptation.This Birmingham of the 1920s is post Industrial, grime and dirt with demobbed gangsters fighting the demons of the trenches with a soundtrack provided by Nick Cave and The White Stripes.Comparisons have been made with Boardwalk Empire, I am reminded something close to home. The 1970s Birmingham serial Gangsters which had a multicultural facet to its story line, novel for the time.Peaky Gangsters has a black preacher, Chinese, Italians, Gypsies and Irish from both sides of the divide.Sam Neill gives the most arresting performance with an Ulster accent. A man of morals but maybe loose principles who has arrived in Birmingham to locate some guns and bring law and order.It's easy to forget that the New Zealand raised Neil was actually born in Northern Ireland.Irish actor Cillian Murphy on the other hand takes a break from flirting with Hollywood to do a Brummie accent as the Great War veteran who is the leader of the Shelby family and has ideas to make it big.He faces demons from the war, has principles but is also ruthless. He is ably supported by actors playing his brothers and Helen McCrory who plays his aunt.The series had its critics with its modern soundtrack, some dodgy Birmingham accents but it was an interesting story well told but rather few of the moves were signposted, you could guess rather early on which character will be doomed by the end of the series.A second series has been commissioned and although this not perfect, it is one of the better British dramas of 2013.
                
            I'm late to the party here as I have been for anything appearing on network or cable TV since 'Seinfeld' went off the air. But it's gratifying in one way, as I've been able to watch the (so far) complete five seasons of "Peaky Blinders" over the course of a few weeks without losing a sense of continuity. I have to say, this is one of the best series I've seen, on a par with shows like HBO's "Deadwood" and "Carnivale", though this one comes courtesy of Netflix and the BBC. The acting is impeccable, with a strong cast led by Cillian Murphy as the notorious Tommy Shelby, leader of the Peaky 'effing' Blinders, as the characters manage to remind us in just about every episode. Without knowing what the title refers to, it becomes clear in a fourth season episode I think, when Finn Shelby (Harry Kirton) earns his brotherly status in the organization by using the razor blade in the peak of his cap to register his initiation murder for the gang. The machinations of the Shelby's are sometimes difficult to follow if you're not attentive, as their alliances and enemies have a way of criss-crossing from one side to another, but suffice it to say, the gypsy blood in the Shelby's generally manage a way to insure their triumph over perceived adversaries. The series is set in 1920's Birmingham, England, with the period detail strikingly imaginative and real. With not a weak actor in the ensemble, it's hard to pick a favorite among the killers and assassins who populate the story lines, but for whatever reason, I happen to take a shine to Harry Kirton as Shelby sidekick Johnny Dogs, who has just the right blend of malice and humor to appear as a well regarded henchman. It will be interesting to see where the story goes next with the start up of Season Six whenever it comes to pass. You can just about bet that there will be more than one instance that result in 'the bleak midwinter'.I heard about this TV show a number of times, and I was recommended it by a few people, so when I got the opportunity I binged it on Netflix before catching up with it on the BBC, created by Steven Wright (Dirty Pretty Things, Eastern Promises). Basically, set Birmingham, England in the early 20th century, in the immediate aftermath of the First World War, it follows the exploits of the Peaky Blinders gang (named after the fact that they sew razor blades in the peaks of their caps). Specifically, it centres on the Shelby crime family, led by ambitious and highly cunning boss Tommy Shelby (twice National Television Award nominated Cillian Murphy). The other family members are Elizabeth "Polly" Gray, née Shelby (Helen McCrory), the aunt, Arthur Shelby, Jr. (Paul Anderson), the oldest Shelby sibling, and John Shelby (Joe Cole), the third-youngest Shelby brother. Throughout the series, the family are investigated by various authorities, including Major Chester Campbell (Sam Neill), who try to expose their crimes. They also go to war with other gangsters and criminals. But they are able to evade these threats and worm their through corrupt governments and politicians to become one of the most powerful crime families. Key moments of the early 20th century that the Peaky Blinders get involved with include the Worchester Races, the 1922 Derby Day at the Epsom racecourse, the general strike of May 1926 (Tommy is elected as a Member of Parliament in 1927), and Black Tuesday aka the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Also starring Annabelle Wallis as Grace Shelby, Tommy's wife, Sophie Rundle as Ada Thorne, née Shelby, the Shelby brothers' only sister, Ned Dennehy as Charlie Strong, Benjamin Zephaniah as Jeremiah 'Jimmy' Jesus, Andy Nyman (series 1), Richard McCabe (series 2) and Neil Maskell (series 5) as Winston Churchill, Tommy Flanagan as Arthur Shelby, Sr., Tommy's father, Tom Hardy as Alfred "Alfie" Solomons, the leader of a Jewish gang in Camden Town, Finn Cole as Michael Gray, Polly's biological son, Natasha O'Keeffe as Lizzie Stark, Noah Taylor as Darby Sabini, Paddy Considine as Father John Hughes, Aimee-Ffion Edwards as Esme Shelby, née Lee, John's wife, Aidan Gillen as Aberama Gold, Adrien Brody as Luca Changretta, Kate Phillips as Linda Shelby, Arthur's wife, Anya Taylor-Joy as Gina Gray, Michael Gray's American wife, Brian Gleeson as Jimmy McCavern, Sam Hazeldine as Georgie Sewell, Donald Sumpter as Arthur Bigge, and Dominic Coleman as Priest. Murphy gives a fantastic performance as the ever-so-cool criminal gang leader, Anderson is often brilliantly intense as the most aggressive of the brothers, and McCrory is superb as the quietly calculating and vicious matriarch. I'm not going to pretend I know much about the political stuff going on throughout the show, I am engaged by the sequences with guns blazing and lots of violence, the often quarrelsome interactions between the family, and the splendid attention of detail with the gloomy backgrounds and well-crafted costumes, it is a most worthwhile historical crime drama. It won the BAFTA for Best Drama Series (also nominated), and it was nominated for Best Production Design (twice), and it was nominated the National Television Award for Most Popular Period Drama. Very good!As so often with things that the BBC promote to the hilt and say "you simply must watch" (hi Fleabag) I do not see much good in this programme.
                
            (Updated after Season 5).Birmingham, England, 1919. In the aftermath of WW1, the Shelby family are making a name for themselves as bookmakers, racketeers and gangsters. Nominally the head of the family is the oldest brother, Arthur, but the real brains, ambition and drive in the organisation lies with Tommy, the second oldest. He will carve out an empire for himself that will stretch beyond Birmingham. This with the aid of his family and his gang, the Peaky Blinders.Superb drama, created and written by Stephen Knight. Gritty, realistic, intriguing and highly entertaining. Some great machinations, subterfuges, plots and counter-plots plus a good amount of action and human drama. Think The Sopranos set in the UK in 1919.Some very clever storylines and plot developments. They sometimes threaten to become implausible and random (especially as the series goes on) but have a way of fitting together and all making sense at the end.Great work by the main performers: Cillian Murphy, Helen McCrory, Paul Anderson, Sophie Rundle and Joe Cole. The secondary/guest performances include some big names: Sam Neill, Tom Hardy, Aiden Gillen, Adrien Brody, Noah Taylor. Tom Hardy is the pick of the bunch, as Alfie Solomons.Great soundtrack too. Though set in the early-20th century, the music is mostly rock, and it works. Despite being anachronistic, the music works, giving the series an edgy feel. It starts with the theme track - Nick Cave's excellent 'Red Right Hand', a song that seems to fit Tommy Shelby perfectly. It continues with the scene-specific music and includes some great tracks. For example, in one episode alone you have Radiohead's 'Climbing Up The Walls', Joy Division's 'Atmosphere' and Black Sabbath's 'War Pigs'.However, after five seasons, cracks are starting to appear in what was until now a perfect series. The plot in Season 5 was a bit loose and unfocused and ends rather clumsily, compared to previous seasons. Still great, but not as good as previous seasons.Here's hoping Steven Knight quits while he's ahead, rather than letting the show go on after the novelty and creativeness have diminished.
                
            This must be the best show that the BBC ever made. I absolutely love everything about this show. It is so refreshing compared to other new shows. The actors are all top notch. The constant battle between Cillian Murphy and Sam Neill is an absolute delight to watch. Helen McCrory as aunt Polly is another stunning performance. Annabelle Wallis is also very good. In fact every actor of this series is good. I can not fault anyone. The storyline with the dark industrial atmosphere form Birmingham post World War One all adds up to be one of the shows you can't dislike. The costumes and the surroundings are all perfect. It's like you took a time machine back to the beginning of the 20th century. Well done BBC, can't wait for the next season!
                
            I could barely watch this. i only kept going cause i wanted to see my boy tommyseries 1: 3
super duper boring. crappier version of boardwalk empire. seemed to be generally well made until some ridiculously stupid stuff started happening... (1 viewing)
SPOILERS
...like when the gangs are about to shoot each other, the sister comes in between with her baby and tells them they shouldn't kill each other. doesn't work but still so stupid, and when the shooting starts it's ridiculous and absurd. how are a group of 30 men going to allow an opponent to walk out in front and shoot their boss in the head smh. dumbest thing ever. also some super basic subplots like the estranged father who shows up out of nowhere wanting something and convincing a son to trust him before inevitably betraying him. i feel like some of the subplots could have been from old sitcoms like boy meets world or fresh prince.
*********************************************************************Series 2: 4
eh. too boring. i quit (1 viewing)Missed this highly regarded series when first broadcast some years ago but was encouraged to watch it by friends and caught up with series one over the festive period. Personally I had no knowledge of the gang-wars in post WWI Birmingham involving the Irish, gypsy and the local community, but found the story of middle brother Tommy Shelby's seemingly irresistible rise to kingpin status wholly involving and entertaining.It's easy to compare this drama with Scorsese's Hollywood take on the gangs of New York, but I hated that film with its cliched characterisations, violence just for violence sake depictions and some terrible over-acting, especially by Daniel Day-Lewis. There's very little of that in "Peaky Blinders" as it makes very few false-steps with a believable array of characters, carefully injected but not overdone scenes of brutality and convincing playing by its well-cast ensemble.Central to everything is the coming-man Tommy, played with cold-eyed efficiency by Cillian Murphy, usurping his older brother Arthur (Paul Anderson) in the process. There's a tearaway younger brother too and a sister who happens to love Tommy's one-time best pal, now a firebrand Communist agitator and a matriarchal aunt cannily played by Helen McCrory.The scene setting of the Birmingham slums, streets and factories is superbly done almost like a time machine has planted the viewer right there all those years ago. The linked stories of the six first episodes crescendo to a thrilling climax as Tommy takes on his established rival, a big-time racetrack bookie and takes in the involvement, make that entanglement with a pretty new Irish waitress who isn't all that she seems.However a senior police officer's mutual fascination with her was really the only missed step in the narrative especially its rather silly, overdone culmination at the conclusion of the first series finale but I now can't wait to further witness Tommy's inexorable rise in future series in what may be the best reason yet for binge-watching boxed sets to my knowledge.
                
            There have been many films, and television series, about modern organised crime: the best are honest, painful and devoid of romanticism. I would love to see a similarly great drama about historic organised crime; but Scorcese's 'Gangs of New York' is a very different (and worse) movie from 'Mean Streets' or 'Taxi Driver'; and 'Peaky Blinders' fails to do for 1920s Birmingham what 'The Wire' did for late 20th century Baltimore. Instead of telling us how it really was, it prefers to tell a fable about the irristible rise of Thomas Shelby, gangster extraordinaire. It's talky, stylised, and in places, the plot jumps about erratically to set up stories that reference the prevailing socio-economic environment, but which use it only as a backdrop for a strange kind of fairytale. Shelby is an ultra-violent, troubled murderer and control freak; but he fought in the war, is loyal to those who pledge absolute obedience, stares down everyone who challenges him and is unfailingly attractive to the ladies. In 'The Wire', Avon Barskdale was never less than human, but also never less than monstrous; in 'Peaky Blinders', it's as if David Simon had chosen to cast Marlow as a hero. Predictably, among the characteristics that are supposed to make us like Shelby are some anachronistic ones; he defends a woman's right to choose her sexual partner; opposes the power of the Catholic church, and is a vigorous opponent of facism. Indeed, the series's preference for black-and-white moralism (where Shelby's vices are always forgiveable because his enemies are even worse than he is) means it achieves the near-impossible, and manages to be unfair to the obnoxious Oswald Mosely. The first series at least had a nicely constructed narrative; the rest is self-mytholgising, and sadly, for all the acclaim it has recevied, simply not very good.
                
            BBC – PEAKY BLINDERS – 2013 – SERIES 1 & 2Birmingham 1919. Great Britain is just coming out of the First World War's butchery and slaughter and has to face three main problems: the rebellion or upheaval in Ireland, the discontentment of the people after the war and their leaning towards Marxism, communism and a violent revolution. Finally all kinds of trafficking people who try to build businesses on the basis of some more or less, rather more than less, criminal activities with the rivalry between or among gangs and families, and among these gangs and families there are the gypsies. A super cop is moved from Ireland to Birmingham to clean up the plate after an important shipment of weapons and ammunitions were stolen.The series describe the bleak and gruesome living conditions of the working class and their direct members who organize the various services like the circulation of alcohol and tobacco, the various fights in illegal or irregular boxing rings, the betting on horses and other things with bookmakers. The cops are complacent, very corrupted or let's say blind and they want some kind of peaceful service even if violence is everywhere around. The new cop sent by London is not exactly what they would call a pacifying element.The series is well done, extremely well acted and quite suspenseful. It shows how among the families who exploit the bleak situation there are rivalries that are warlike more than fair play. Everything is good to get what the others have, to increase your territory and your influence by getting rid of others, of competitors. Competition in other words is always to the death.There is in other words no ethics anywhere and even the communists who are self-sacrificing are not really better because their objective is to force society in one direction rather than the other by using the discontentment of many to turn them into their most of the time unarmed infantry.